---
title: Create a Dynamo Table
sidebar_position: 10
---

AWS Dynamo Database users can create Dynamo Table collections. You can use Macrometa as a datastore and achieve global data distribution within milliseconds. 

To switch to GDN, you must change the connection URL, `AccessKey`, and `SecretKey`. AWS Dynamo DB SDK and CLI are compatible. Geo-distribution is global by default.

## Create a Dynamo Table Collection with the Console

Follow these instructions to create a new collection using the GDN console web UI.

1. [Log in to your Macrometa account](https://auth.paas.macrometa.io/).
1. Click **Collections**.
1. Click **New Collection**.
1. Click **Dynamo Table**.
1. Enter information about the collection and then click **Create**.

   - **Table Name -** Required. A unique name to distinguish the collection. Spaces are not allowed.
   - **Partition Key -** Required. The key is not autogenerated.
   - **Partition Key Type -** Select the option that matches the partition key value.
   - **Sorting Key (Optional) -** An optional key for creating a composite key in combination with the partion key.
   - **Sorting Key Type (Optional) -** Required if you enter a sorting key.
   - **Create Secondary Index -** Add a secondary Partion and/or Sort Key that differ from the base table.

## Create a Dynamo Table Collection with Code

Use [createTable](reference/createTable.md) to create a new Dynamo table in the collection.

Refer to the other topics in this section for various examples using this function with the SDK, CLI, and Boto3.