---
sidebar_position: 90
title: Prerendering Best Practices
---

Prerendering is an optimization technique that generates static HTML pages from dynamic content to improve website performance. The following best practices help you get the most out of Prerendering.

## Selective Prerendering

To maximize the benefits of prerendering, target specific areas of your website that will gain the most from this optimization technique. Typically, these are high-traffic pages or sections featuring dynamic content that seldom changes. By focusing on these areas, you ensure efficient use of resources and faster load times for your users.

For more information about setting up origins, refer to [Manage Origin Settings](manage-origins).

## Domain Configuration

Be very careful when configuring the domains for prerendering. Incorrect settings can result in caching problems and the delivery of outdated content. Make sure the specified domains are accurate and correspond to the sections of your site that you intend to prerender.

## Use the API for Caching and Recaching

Take advantage of the prerendering service's API to programatically cache or recache pages. This ensures that crawlers always access up-to-date content, and allows you greater control over your caching strategy. You can also manually purge the cache in the web console.

For more information about managing the Preredering cache, refer to [Manage Cache](manage-cache).

## Remove or Update Dead Links

Dead links negatively affect both your SEO rankings and the cost of prerendering. Regularly scan your website for dead links and either remove them or update them to point to active pages. This improves user experience and ensures you're not incurring extra charges for prerendering pages that don't contribute to your site's value.

If you have a system that redirects users to a page that provides a 404 experience if they stumble on something that isn't covered, then you might want to add a 404 identifier to Prerendering. For more information, refer to [Manage 404 Identifiers](manage-404-identifiers).

## Implement User-Agent String Detection on Your Origin Server

Customize your origin server to detect user-agent strings. This enables more granular control over the content you serve, allowing you to tailor user experiences based on the device or browser they are using. For example, you could serve a lighter version of your website to browsers that are known to have performance constraints.

## Regularly Review Prerendering Performance Metrics

Examine the performance metrics generated by the prerendering service. These metrics provide valuable insights into user experience and identify areas for further optimization. Make a habit of checking these metrics at regular intervals to stay ahead of any issues.

For more information about monitoring Prerendering metrics, refer to [Monitor Prerendering](monitor-prerendering).

## Manage Cache on Your Origin Server

Effective cache management on your origin server is crucial for optimizing dynamic content. Coordinate the cache settings on your origin server with the prerendering settings to ensure that users get the most up-to-date content without compromising on load times.
